# German Tank Problem

## Introduction
This is a program that runs a simulation to demonstrate the unbiased nature of N-hat.

## Article
This project accompanies my article on the German Tank Problem, published in *Chalkdust*. (Link to be added once published.)

## The Purpose and Functions
A true population size is set and a sample size is chosen(20 and 50 are the pre-existing sample sizes). Then, a simulation is run whereby samples are collected over a large number of iterations (e.g 10000) and two lists are created. 

The first list is generated by using the Estimator method which I proposed and the second is generated by only looking at the maximums of each sample. An average is calculated from each list and both lists are plotted on histograms along with the true value.

The purpose of this is to show that the estimator formula is unbiased and can overestimate or underestimate at times but, over many iterations, converges to be extremely close (if not exactly) to the true value N. This is much more accurate than the second method.

With N=1000 and a sample of 20, the estimator averages roughly 1000 while the maximum-only method averages roughly 953.

A second graph is also plotted, highlighting how the sample size affects the data cluster around the mean. A greater sample size means the estimates cluster much closer to the mean, allowing for greater accuracy.

## How to Use It

Matplotlib would have to be downloaded in order to use this (pip install matplotlib in the terminal). The random module is built-in so it should not be an issue. 

Run this with python using "Simulation.py".

In order to experiment with different sample sizes, either change the value of k or change the arguments of the simulation function. 

## Output
Running the script should produce two graphs:

 - "german_tank_estimator_vs_baseline.png" - the estimator vs the maximum-only method, showing the estimator centres on the true N while the maximum-only method systematically underestimates.

- "german_tank_sample_size.png" - how a larger sample size tightens the spread of estimates around N.

That's it, enjoy !